---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/books/joseph-delaney-the-wardstone-chronicles/","created":"2024-04-19","updated":"2024-04-19"}
---


# Review

I loved this series, still do I reread it a year or two ago, even though the first book or two you can definitely feel is being aimed at a younger audience. I think me and 3 other people read it though, it never went big like some of the other YA dark fantasy stuff did around the same time, even though I do feel it had the same potential. It did get a movie to be fair so it's not nothing, but we don't talk about that. There is no movie in Ba Sing Se. It's called the "Wardstone Chronicles" in the UK where the author is from but they decided that our American minds wouldn't be able to parse that so they renamed it to the comparatively drab "The Last Apprentice" series in the US. Which I hate a bit because I feel like that further torpedos the ability to talk about it online because some people are calling it one thing, others another. The author also wrote a couple spin off shorter series and one-off books set in the same world but Wardstone/Last Apprentice was the main, longest series.

Anyway, it feels a lot like the best parts of Harry Potter (the getting lost and pulled into an interesting new world) without some of the more inconsistent rules HP has. Anyone that read HP and points to the worldbuilding being their favorite aspect of it, I could definitely recommend this series to. It's a dark fantasy series, primarily based on English folklore, (It does in fact take place in a sort of alternate kinda Mediaeval kinda not England, though the names of towns have been changed) about a young boy Tom who is apprenticed to the local Spook. A "Spook" being someone that fights and captures dark creatures like ghosts, witches, and boggarts. It's like a profession in the world, though there's not many of them.

I think the main thing the series had going for it, is despite the stakes going up lots as the series went on, it remained relatively grounded in the rules of the world. The majority of the time the problem of the day gets solved by being smart and using information that's been previously given. It also does the thing many series do where as time goes on things get darker and darker, and morality gets more and more gray. Where people we once would have put in the ground are now close allies because there are much worse things out there coming. Like I said, having gone back and read the series recently, the first book or two does skew a bit younger just to forewarn if anyone does feel like reading it. (First book's name is "Revenge of the Witch") But even despite that, it does get the ball rolling on the worldbuilding pretty well.