---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/tv/dar-k/","created":"2024-04-18","updated":"2024-04-19"}
---


# Review

So I've been binge-watching the show "Dark". It's real good, I finished (and started) the first season yesterday...It's one of those shows that you can't talk about the plot at all without spoiling everything because it's a mystery/sci-fi show sort of in the vein of LOST. I would describe it as a sort of cross between Back to the Future (not at all because of tone but because of...well...), Stranger Things (similar-ish setup of kid and parent generations hiding things from each other, power plant/lab with secrets), and Twin Peaks (very dense, many MANY inter-connected characters in a small-ish town, everyone's fuckin everyone, and it's a mystery). It's about these 4 or 5 families who've been living in the town of Winden, Germany and there have been kids disappearing. The show was from Netflix, but it is German. It seems some people don't like the english dub and prefer just using subtitles, I find that tiring and the dub did not bother me. Even though I did still have subtitles on for any of the writing. It was pre-planned to have 3 seasons and they finished it back in 2020. So the Netflix reaper where they cancel every show before it can actually go anywhere, did not happen to it.

I finished this series and have some additional thoughts. Definitely still good by the end. Great that the writers had a plan the whole time from the beginning to the end. Dialogue sometimes got a bit monotonous in season 3. Makes sense in context but I've heard German people say the end is the beginning and everything is happening as it always has about 1000 times. People liked to converse almost exclusively in riddles by the end of the show. Which, again, makes sense given what's happening around them. But it's a fun mind-bendy time travely romp anyway. Everyone is connected to everyone. Everyone is fucking everyone. Everyone is manipulating everyone. Everyone is being manipulated by everyone. Takeaways are 1) stay in school 2) use condoms and 3) nuclear physicists >>> high school dropouts.
